.TH hmrc 4 "February 06, 2013"
.SH NAME
hmrc \- Hypermail configuration file 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Hypermail
can use a configuration file to allow you to customize the individual 
aspects of a list.  In past versions of hypermail it was necessary for 
all hmrc variables to begin with 'hm_'.  While still supported, it is 
not necessary to use the 'hm_' prefix any longer and this document
reflects that. [This page may be out of date. See the hmrc.html file for
complete and up to date info.]
.RE
.LP
In the configuration file, blank lines and lines beginning with a hash mark
.RB ( # )
are considered comments and are ignored.  The format of the "options" need to
be in lowercase and separated with an equals
.RB ( = )
sign, such as:
.LP
.PD 0
.RS
.B option = value
.LP
.B mbox = "/home/john/my_mailbox"
.LP
.B filemode = 0600
.PD
.RE
.LP
You can specify which configuration file to use on the command line or, if 
not specified, Hypermail will use the one specified as
.B CONFIGFILE
in options.h.  If the first character is "~", Hypermail will look for the 
file under the current user's home directory.
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.TP
Below is a list of variables that Hypermail understands. 
.LP
Boolean numbers can have the value of
.B 0
or
.B 1.
.TP
.B language = two letter language specification
This is a two-letter string specifying the default language to use, or a
longer string specifying a language and locale.
Set this the value of the language table you wish to use when running
and generating archives. 

.in 10
.B Current supported languages:

      de (de_DE) - German
      en (en_US) - English
      es (es_ES) - Spanish
      fi (fi_FI) - Finnish
      fr (fr_FR) - French
      el (el) - Greek
      gr (el_GR) - Greek
      is (is_IS) - Icelandic
      no (no_NO) - Norwegian
      pl (pl_PL) - Polish
      pt (pt_BR) - Brazilian Portuguese
      ru (ru_RU) - Russian
      sv (sv_SE) - Swedish

.nr
The directory /usr/share/i18n/locales on many systems has the locale
codes that are available on that system.

.TP
.B mbox = "filename"
This is the mailbox to read messages in from.  Set this with a value of
.B "NONE"
to read from standard input.
.TP
.B ietf_mbox = boolean_number
Setting this variable to
.B 1
will tell hypermail that the mbox is formatted according to the IETF
mbox convention: all lines, except for the envelope, are prefixed with a
.B >
char.
.TP
.B linkquotes = [ 0 | 1 ]
Set this to On to create fine-grained links from quoted
text to the text where the quote originated. It also improves
the threads index file by more accurately matching messages
with replies. Note that this may be rather cpu intensive (see
the searchbackmsgnum option to alter the performance).
.TP
.B eurodate = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to display article received dates with days before months instead of months 
before days.
.TP
.B folder_by_date = strftime date format
This string causes the messages to be put in subdirectories
by date. The string will be passed to strftime(3) to generate
subdirectory names based on message dates. Suggested values are
"%y%m" or "%b%y" for monthly subdirectories, "%Y" for
yearly, "%G/%V" for weekly. Do not alter this for an existing
archive without removing the old html files. If you use this
and update the archive incrementally (e.g. with -u), you must
use the usegdbm option.
.TP
.B msgsperfolder = number
Put messages in subdirectories with this many messages per
directory. Do not use this and folder_by_date on the same archive.
Do not alter this for an existing archive without removing the old
html files. Deleted/expired messages ARE COUNTED for the purpose
of deciding how many messages to put in a subdirectory.
.TP
.B increment = [ 0 | 1 | -1 ]
Define as
.B 1
to append all input messages to the end of existing archives.
 Define as
.B 0
for it to read a mailbox that corresponds to the entire
archive. (See the mbox_shortened option for
an exception to the requirement that it be the entire archive).
If there are any existing html messages, it will figure out which
ones at the end of the mailbox are new, and add only those that haven't been
converted yet.
 Define as
.B -1
to have hypermail figure out whether the input
is entirely new messages to be appended or whether it contains
messages that are already in the archive. A value of -1 cannot be
used with the mbox_shortened option or with the -i command line
option or with mbox = NONE.
.TP
.B label = "label name"
Define this as the label to put in archives. 
.TP
.B dir = "directory"
This is the directory that Hypermail will look for when creating and
updating archives.  If defined as
.B "NONE"
the directory will have the same name as the input mailbox.
.LP
.in 10
Using date substitution cookies, you can tell Hypermail to archive 
messages in directories by the date they were received.
.LP
.in 10
.B Substitution cookies supported

    %d - two digit day of month (1-28/30/31)
    %D - three letter day of the week
    %m - two digit month of year (1-12)
    %M - three letter month of year (Jan, ..., Dec)
    %y - four digit year (1990,..2001)
.LP
.in 10
For example, if you wished to have Hypermail archive files by year and month,
you might use
.LP
.in 20
.B dir = /lists/somelist/%y/%M
.LP
.in 10
When a message was processed it would be put into a directory 
.B /lists/somelist/1998/Jun 
(if the message is processed in June of 1998).  If the message arrives and there 
is no storage directory, Hypermail will automatically create it and store 
the message in the new directory.
 Note that the date that Hypermail was run will be used, not
a date from the message (use the folder_by_date option to
have Hypermail use dates from messages).
.TP
.B dateformat = strftime date format
Format used in 
.B strftime(3) 
call for displaying dates.
See 
.B strftime(3) 
for the valid conversion specifications.
.TP
.B stripsubject = "string"
A string to be stripped from all subject lines. Helps unclutter
mailing lists which add tags to subject lines.
.TP
.B archives = "URL"
This will create a link in the archived index pages labeled
.I "Other mail archives"
to the specified URL.  Set this to
.B "NONE"
to omit such a link.
.TP
.B custom_archives = HTML text
If this variable is defined, a navigation entry will be
created below the sorted_by_x list entry, with the text
.I Other mail archives:
followed by the value of this variable. Set it to
.B NONE
to ommit such an entry.
.TP
.B about = "URL"
This will create a link in the archived index pages labeled
.I "About this archive"
to the specified URL.  Set this to
.B "NONE"
to omit such a link.
.TP
.B usemeta = boolean_number
This option allows you to use metadata to store the content type of a MIME
attachment and, later on,  when a user browses the attachment, send back
this information in the HTTP Content-Type header.  When set to
.B 1,
the Content-Type
header of  a MIME attachment will be stored in a metadata
file.  Let us say that the MIME attachments for a message are stored in
directory
.B att-num.
The metadata for those attachments will then be stored in directory
.B att-num/.meta.
If a MIME attachment is stored in file
.B att-file,
its metadata will be stored in file
.B att-file.meta.
This convention is directly compatible with the Apache server handling of
metada.
.TP
.B indextable = boolean_number
Setting this variable to 
.B 1
will tell Hypermail to generate an message index 
Subject/Author/Date listings using a table format.  
Set to 
.B 0 
if you want the standard Hypermail index page look and feel. 
.TP
.B reverse = boolean_number
Setting this variable to
.B 1
will reverse-sort the article entries in the date and thread index files 
by the date they were received.  That is, the most recent messages will 
appear at the top of the index rather than the other way around.
.TP
.B showheaders = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to show the article header lines in the archived HTML files.  These 
lines typically include the
.B "To:", "From:",
and
.B "Subject:"
information found in most email messages.
.TP
.B showhtml = [ 0 | 1 | 2 ]
Set this to
.B 1
to show the articles in a proportionally-spaced font rather than a 
fixed-width (monospace) font.
Set this to
.B 2
for more complex conversion to html similar to that in
.B txt2html.pl.
Showhtml = 2 will normally produce nicer looking results than
showhtml = 1, and showhtml = 0 will look pretty dull, but
1 and 2 run risks of altering the appearance in undesired ways.
.TP
.B showbr = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to place
.B <br>
tags at the end of article lines.  Otherwise, all non-quoted article lines 
will word wrap.  This only takes effect if
.B showhtml
is enabled.
.TP
.B iquotes = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to italicize quoted lines.
.TP
.B show_msg_links = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to put the individual message links at the top of the individual
message pages.  Set this to
.B 0
to produce pages without the Next, Previous, Reply, In-Reply-To, etc.  links.
.TP
.B showreplies = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to show all replies to a message as links in article files.
.TP
.B discard_dup_msgids = boolean_number
Set this to 
.B 0
to accept messages with a Message-ID matching that of a message 
already in this archive.  By default such messages are discarded.
.TP
.B require_msgids = boolean_number
Set this to 
.B 0
to accept messages without a Message-ID header.  Set this to 
.B 1
to discard messages without a Message-ID header.  By default such 
messages are discarded.
.TP
.B fragment_prefix =  "string"
Put this string before the message number in each URI fragment. The defaul
prefix is
.B msg.
.TP
.B email_address_obfuscation = boolean_number
Set to
.B 1
to enable email address obfuscation using numeric character references.
Option 
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B i18n = boolean_number
Enable I18N features, hypermail must be linked with 
.B libiconv.
Option
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B i18n_body = boolean_number
Translate message body into UTF-8. The
.B i18n
configuration option must be
.B  enabled.
Option
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B htmlmessage_edited = "string"
Set this to HTML markup you want to appear in the body of manually 
edited messages. Option
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B htmlmessage_deleted_other = "string"
Set this to HTML markup you want to appear in the body of deleted 
messages (by reasons other than spam). Option
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B htmlmessage_deleted_spam = "string"
Set this to HTML markup you want to appear in the body of deleted 
messages (by spam reasons). Option 
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B spamprotect = boolean_number
Set this to 
.B 1
to make hypermail not output real email addresses in the output
HTML, but instead obfuscate them a little.  By default email
addresses are obfuscated.
.TP
.B antispam_at = "string"
Set this to 
.B 1
make hypermail use something like "_at_" instead of the RFC 2822 @ address
separator.
.TP
.B spamprotect_id = boolean_number
Set this to 
.B 1
to make hypermail not output real email message
ids in HTML comments (sometimes used internally by hypermail) but
instead it will obfuscate them a little so they don't look like
email addresses to spammers.
.TP
.B attachmentsindex = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 0
to make hypermail not output an index of articles with attachments.
By default hypermail outputs this index.
.TP
.B mailto = "address"
The address of the contact point that is put in the HTML header line 
   <LINK REV=made HREF=mailto:MAILTO>
.br
Setting this to
.B "NONE"
disables <LINK...> header generation.
.TP
.B mailcommand = "command"
This specifies the mail command to use when converting email addresses to 
links.  The variables
.B $TO, $SUBJECT,
and
.B $ID
can be used in constructing the command string.
.LP
.in 10
.B $TO
represents the address to send mail to,
.LP
.in 10
.B $SUBJECT
represents the subject that is being replied to, and
.LP
.in 10
.B $ID
represents the message ID of the article that is being replied to. 
.LP
.in 10
If 
defined as
.B "NONE",
email addresses will not be converted to links in articles.  A possible 
command one could use is
.B "mailto:$TO?subject=$SUBJECT"
and the Subject: would also be filled in.
This can be changed to specify a CGI program such as
.B "/cgi-bin/mail?to=$TO".
A CGI mail program is included with the source which can be used for 
this purpose.
.TP
.B domainaddr = "domainname"
Set this to the domainname you want added to a mail address appearing 
in the RFC822 field which lack a hostname.  When the list resides on the 
same host as the user sending the message, it is often not required of
the MTA to domain-ize these addresses for delivery.  In such cases, 
Hypermail will add the DOMAINADDR to the email address.  If defined as
.B "NONE",
this feature is turned off.
.TP
.B htmlsuffix = "suffix"
Use this to specify the html file suffix to be used when Hypermail 
generates the html files.  This is dependent on local needs.  Do not 
put a '.' in the value.  It would result in "file..html", probably 
not what you want. 
.TP
.B describe_folder = "string describing folder"
Controls the labels used in folders.html to describe the
directories created by the folder_by_date or msgsperfolder
options. For folder_by_date labels, the describe_folder string
will be passed to strftime(3) the same as the folder_by_date string.
For msgsperfolder:

  %d for the directory number (starts with 0)
  %D for the directory number (starts with 1)
  %m for the number of the first message in the directory
  %M for the number of the last message that can be put in the directory.

.TP
.B latest_folder = "string"
If folder_by_date or msgsperfolder are in use, create
a symbolic link by this name to the most recently created
subdirectory. Note that many web servers are configured to
not follow symbolic links for security reasons. The link will
be created in the directory specified by the "dir" or "-d" option.
.TP
.B base_url = "url"
The url of the archive's main directory. This is needed when
the latest_folder option is used and the folder_by_date makes
directories more than one level deep (e.g. with '%y/%m').
.TP
.B iso2022jp = boolean_number
Set this to On to support ISO-2022-JP messages.
.TP
.B uselock = boolean_number
Controls whether to use hypermail's built-in locking mechanism.  By default,
this option is set to 
.B 1.
Set it to 
.B 0
if you have an external locking mechanism,
like, for example, when using procmail or smartlist.
.TP
.B locktime = number-of-seconds
Set this to the number of seconds that a lock should be honored
when processing inbound messages.  Defaults to 3600 seconds.
.TP
.B annotated = "list of headers"
This is the list of headers that indicate that a message was annotated. Option
.B disabled
by default.

In an annotated message, the values of the header specify the type of
annotations. The header may have one or more comma-separated values. Order and
case are not important. Hypermail recognizes two types of
annotations:
.B content
and
.B robot
annotations. 

.B "Content annotations"
give information to the reader about how an archive maintainer has operated on
an original received message. This operation typically happens as a belated
action, for example, when removing spam from an existing archive.  Content
annotations can have one, and only one, of the following values:

.in 18
.I spam
message deleted because it is spam;
.br
.in 18
.I deleted
message deleted, other reasons;
.br
.in 18
.I edited
original received message was manually edited.
.in 14

If a message specifies more than one content annotation, only the first one
will be taken into account. You can customize the markup that\'s shown for
content annotations by means of the
.I "html_message_deleted_other,"
.I "html_message_deleted_spam,"
and 
.I "html_message_edited"
directives.

.B Robot annotations
instruct a visiting web robot if the contents of a message should be indexed
and/or if the outgoing links from the message should be followed, doing so thru
a specific HTML meta tag.  (browse http://www.robotstxt.org/ for further
details).

.B Robot annotations
can have either one or both of the following values:

.in 18
.I "nofollow"
do not follow outgoing HTML links from this file;
.br
.in 18
.I "noindex"
do not index the content of this file.
.in 14

You can use one or both values and combine them with the edited content annotation.
Note that
.I spam
and
.I deleted
annotations have an implicit robot
.I "noindex"
annotation. 
In such case, user supplied robot annotations values will be silently ignored.

NOTE: The list maintainer must be careful on whether to accept incoming messages
containing the 
.B annotated
header. If the policy is not to allow that header on incoming messages, it must
be filtered out before the message is stored or acted upon by hypermail.

.TP
.B deleted = "list of headers"
.B NOTE:
this option has been deprecated by
.B "annotated,"
but it will continue being parsed and honored for legacy reasons.

This is the list of headers that indicate the message should
not be displayed if the value of this header is 'yes'.
The default is "X-Hypermail-Deleted X-No-Archive".
.TP
.B expires = "list of headers"
This is the list of headers that indicate the message should
not be displayed if the value of this header is a date in the past.
The default value is "Expires".
.TP
.B delete_older = "date"
Any message older than this date should not be displayed.
Example: delete_older = "Wed, 14 Mar 2001 12:59:51 +0200"
.TP
.B delete_newer = "date"
Any message newer than this date should not be displayed.
.TP
.B delete_msgnum = "list of message numbers"
 This is the list of message numbers that should be deleted from the
html archive. The mbox is not changed.
.TP
.B delete_level = [ 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 ]
 0 - remove deleted and expired files. Note that with this choice threading may be screwed up if there are replies to deleted or expired options and the archive is updated incrementally
 1 - remove message body
 2 - remove message body for deleted messages, leave expired messages
 3 - leave all messages
Deleted and expired messages are removed from the index files
regardless of the delete_level selection. The default is 1.
.TP
.B delete_incremental =  boolean_number
If this option is enabled, hypermail will perform deletions on old
messages when run in incremental mode (according to the other delete
configuration options). Note that depending on your hypermail setup,
the size of the archive, and the complexity of the markup,
there may be memory and parsing issues, specifically when there are
non-deleted replies to a deleted message.
If this option is disabled, deleted messages will only be removed
when rebuilding the whole archive. Option
.B enabled
by default.
.TP
.B txtsuffix = "suffix"
 If you want the original mail messages archived in individual files,
set this to the extension that you want these messages to have
(recommended value: txt).
.TP
.B filter_out = "list of patterns"
Delete from the html archives any message having a header line
which matches any of these expressions. Uses the same rules for
deletion as the expires option. The expressions use the same
syntax as Perl regular expressions.
.TP
.B filter_require = "list of patterns"
Delete from the html archives any message not having header lines
which match each of these expressions. Uses the same rules for
deletion as the expires option. The expressions use the same
syntax as Perl regular expressions.
.TP
.B filter_out_full_body = "list of patterns"
Delete from the html archives any message having a line
which matches any of these expressions. Uses the same rules for
deletion as the expires option. The expressions use the same
syntax as Perl regular expressions.
.TP
.B filter_require_full_body = "list of patterns"
Delete from the html archives any message not having lines
which match each of these expressions. Uses the same rules for
deletion as the expires option. The expressions use the same
syntax as Perl regular expressions.
.TP
.B save_alts = [ 0 | 1 | 2 ]
This controls what happens to alternatives (other than the prefered
alternative) for multipart/alternative messages.
 0 - discard non-prefered alternatives
 1 - show all alternatives inline
 2 - put non-prefered alternatives in a separate file.
.TP
.B alts_text = "string"
If save_alts is 1, this text is put between the alternatives.
If save_alts is 2, this text is used to describe the link to each
alternative file.
.TP
.B warn_surpressions = boolean_number
Set this to On to get warnings (on stdout) about messages that
are not converted because of they are missing a msgid (if
require_msgids is On) or because one of the following options
surpressed it: deleted expires delete_msgnum filter_out
filter_require filter_out_full_body filter_require_full_body.
.TP
.B unsafe_chars = "characters"
Any characters listed in this string are removed from user-specified
attachment filenames. Those characters will be replaced by a "_"
(which means that specifying "_" here won't have any effect).
Note that many characters (including / and ) are removed by the
safe_filename in parse.c regardless of what this option says. There
might be some security problems that can be prevented if you specify
"." here (e.g. if a web server is configured to enable server side
includes on filenames ending in something other than .shtml), but
that will prevent browsers from recognizing many file types.
.TP
.B files_by_thread = boolean_number
Set this to On to generate (in addition to the usual files),
a file for each thread that contains all the messages in that thread.
.TP
.B href_detection = boolean_number
Set this to On to assume that any string on the body of the message
that says <A HREF=" ... </A> is a URL, together with its markup
and treat it as such.
.TP
.B mbox_shortened = boolean_number
Set this to On to enable use of mbox that has had some of its
initial messages deleted. Requires usegdbm = 1 and increment = 0.
The first message in the shortened mbox must have a Message-Id header.
If discard_dup_msgids is 0, the first message in the shortened mbox
may not have the same Message-Id as a message that was deleted.
The mbox may not be altered in any way other than deleting from
beginning of the mbox or appending new messages to the end (unless
you rebuild the archive from scratch using a complete mbox).
.TP
.B report_new_folder = boolean_number
Set this to On to have it print (on stdout) the names of any
new directories created pursuant to the folder_by_date or
msgsperfolder option, or the initial creation of the archive.
It will print the full path if that is what you use to specify
the archive directory. Does not print anything when attachment
or metadata directories are created.
.TP
.B report_new_file = boolean_number
Set this to On to have it print (on stdout) the names of any
new files created for new messages. It will print the full path
if that is what you use to specify the archive directory.
.TP
.B startmsgnum = number
Sets the number of the first message of an archive. This option is
only active when adding new messages to brand new archive.
If not set, the default number will be 0000.
Note that if you change this setting, you are stuck with it. If you
rebuild your archive, you must use the same value or you'll break any
link pointing to your archive.
.TP
.B attachmentlink = attachment link format
.LP
.in 10
.B Substitution cookies supported:

    %p for the full path to the attachment
    %f for the file name part only
    %d for the directory name only
    %n for the message number
    %c for the content type string
.TP
.B dirmode = octal_number
This is an octal number representing the permissions that new directories 
are set to when they are created.  If the archives will be made publically 
available, it's a good idea to define this as
.B 0755. 
.TP
.B filemode = octal_number
This is an octal number representing the file permissions that new files 
are set to when they are created.  If the archives will be made publically 
available, it's a good idea to define this as
.B 0644.
.TP
.B overwrite = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to make Hypermail overwrite existing archives. 
.TP
.B progress = [ 0 | 1 | 2 ]
Set this to
.B 1
or
.B 2
to always show a progress report as Hypermail works.  With a setting of 1,
hypermail overwrites the progress information relating to attachment creation.
With a setting of 2, attachment creation information is listed individually
with the number of the message the attachments relate to.
This is written to stdout.
.TP
.B thrdlevels = number
This specifies the number of thread levels to outline in the thread index.  For instance, if
.B thrdlevels
is
.B 2,
replies to messages will be indented once in the index, but replies to replies, etc., will only be indented once as well.
.TP
.B defaultindex = type
This specifies the default index that users can view when entering the 
archive.  Valid types are
.B "date,"
.B "thread,"
.B "author,"
and
.B "subject."
.TP
.B avoid_indices = which_index_files_not_to_use
This is a list of index files to not generate. Valid types are
.B "date,"
.B "thread,"
.B "author,"
and
.B "subject."
.TP
.B ihtmlheaderfile = path
Define path as the path to a template file containing valid HTML formatting 
statements that you wish to included at the top of every index page.  Hypermail
will print this file as the header of the index so make sure it contains 
.B <HTML>, <HEAD>, <BODY> 
and other statements that suit your local customized needs. 
.TP
.B ihtmlfooterfile = path
Define path as the path to a template file containing valid HTML formatting 
statements that you wish to included at the bottom of every index page. 
Hypermail will print this file as the trailer of the index so make sure it 
contains at a minimum a 
.B </BODY>
and
.B </HTML> 
statement.
.TP
.B mhtmlheaderfile = path
Define path as the path to a template file containing valid HTML formatting 
statements that you wish to use at the top of every message page.  Hypermail 
will print this file as the header of the message so make sure it contains 
.B <HTML>, <HEAD>, <BODY> 
and other statements that suit your local customized needs.
.TP
.B mhtmlfooterfile = path
Define path as the path to a template file containing valid HTML formatting 
statements you wish to use at the bottom of every message page.  Hypermail 
will print this file as the trailer of the message so make sure it contains 
at a minimum a 
.B </BODY>
and
.B </HTML> 
statement.
.TP
.B hmail =  Mailing_List_Submission_Address
Set this to the list's submission address.  When enabled, this can be 
used to submit a new message to the list served by the hypermail archive. 
.B "NONE" 
means don't use it.
.TP
.B newmsg_command = "mailto:$TO"
This specifies the mail command to use when converting the
.B set_hmail
address to links in replies. The variables
.B $TO, 
.B $SUBJECT,
and 
.B $ID 
can be used in constructing the command string.
.TP
.B replymsg_command = "mailto:$TO"
This specifies the mail command to use when converting the
set_hmail address to links in replies. The variables 
.B $TO, 
.B $SUBJECT,
and 
.B $ID
can be used in constructing the command string. The value
from mailcommand will be used if this option is not specified.
.TP
.B inreplyto_command = "URL"
This gives a URI template to a script that hypermail will link to
if it's unable to find in the archive's messages the MID corresponding
to an
.B In-Reply-To
header. The variable
.B $ID
is used to specify where the
.B Message-Identifier value
will appear in the link. A possible command one could use is
.B http://example.org/mid-resolver/$ID.
This option is 
.B disabled
by default.
.TP
.B icss_url = "URL"
This will link an external stylesheet found at the given URL to
the index files. This will happen thru a
.B LINK
element in the index document's
.B HEAD.
By default this option is desactivated.
.TP
.B mcss_url = "URL"
This will link an external stylesheet found at the given URL to
the message files. This will happen thru a
.B LINK
element in the message document's
.B HEAD.
By default this option is desactivated.
.TP
.B show_headers = list_of_RFC_Headers_to_display
This is the list of headers to be displayed if showheaders is set to 
1 (TRUE).  They can be listed comma or space separated all on a single 
line.  If it contains the special character ``*''
.B hypermail
will display all header lines.
.TP
.B readone = boolean_number
Set this to
.B 1
to specify there is only one message in the input.
.TP
.B inlinehtml = boolean_number
This is used to make text/html parts to get inlined within the 
mail messages.  If set to
.B 0
, HTML-parts will be stored as separate files.
.TP
.B text_types = MIME types to be treated as text/plain.
This is a list of MIME types that you want hypermail to treat
exactly as if they were text/plain.  This can be listed 
individually on multiple lines or comma or space separated 
on a single line.
.TP
.B prefered_types = which alternative types to use
When mails using multipart/mixed types are scanned, this is the 
list of alternative MIME types that you want used.  This can be 
listed individually on multiple lines or comma or space separated 
on a single line.  Note: Order is important.
.TP
.B inline_types = which_image_types_should_be_inlined
This is the list of MIME types that you want inlined as opposed to
simply linked into the message.  They can be listed individually on 
multiple lines or comma or space separated on a single line.
.TP
.B inline_addlink = boolean_number
Enable add inline links to content that is stored in the
attachments subdirectory.  Option
.B inline_types
must also be enabled. This option is 
.B enabled
by default.
.TP
.B ignore_types = types_of_MIME_attachments_to_ignore 
This is the list of MIME attachment types that you do not want to
do anything with.  They are quietly ignored.  They can be listed 
individually on multiple lines or comma or space separated on a 
single line.
.TP
.B searchbackmsgnum = postive integer
If the linkquotes option is on and an incremental update is being
done (-u option), this controls the tradeoff between speed and
the reliability of finding the right source for quoted text.
Try to set it to the largest number of messages between a
message and the final direct reply to that message.
.TP
.B link_to_replies = [ string | NONE]
If the linkquotes option is on, specifying a string here
causes it to generate links from original quoted text the
location(s) in replies which quote them. The string
is used to display the link.
.TP
.B quote_hide_threshold = percent (integer)
If the linkquotes option is on, setting this to an
integer less than 100 will cause it to replace quoted
text with one-line links if the percent of lines in the
message body (exluding the signature) consisting of
quoted text exceeds the number indicated by this option.
.TP
.B quote_link_string = [ string | NONE ]
If the quote_hide_threshold option is being used, the
quote_link_string will be used if available to display the
link that replaces the quoted text. If no string is specified
here, the first line of each section of quoted text will used.
.TP
.B monthly_index = [ 0 | 1 ]
Set this to On to create additional index files broken up
by month. A summary.html file will provide links to all the
monthly indices.
.TP
.B yearly_index = [ 0 | 1 ]
Set this to On to create additional index files broken up
by year. A summary.html file will provide links to all the
yearly indices.
.TP
.B thread_file_depth = [ 0 | 1 ]
If nonzero, break the threads index file into multiple files,
with the initial message of each thread in the main index file
along with links to files containing the replies. Setting this
to 1 creates one file for each thread that has replies, and is
recommended for archives with over a few hundred messages.
Setting this greater than 1 will produce multiple levels of files
for each thread whose replies are nested by more than 1 level,
but that is rarely useful. This option is currently disabled
if the indextable option is turned on, and probably needs to
be less than thrdlevels.
.LP
.SH HTML TEMPLATE FILE SUBSTITUTION COOKIES
.LP
You can insert "substitution cookies" in the header and footer HTML template 
files so appropriate information can be filled in at runtime. 
.LP
.B Substitution cookies supported: 
.LP
.nf
     %% - '%' character
     %~ - Storage directory
     %e - Email addres of message author - Not valid on index pages
     %h - HMURL
     %i - Message-id - Not valid on index pages
     %l - Archive label
     %m - Mailto address
     %p - PROGNAME
     %s - Subject of message or Index Title
     %v - VERSION
     %u - Expanded version link (HMURL,PROGNAME,VERSION)
     \\n - newline character
     \\t - tab character
.nr
.LP
.B Additional cookies generate the complete META lines: 
.LP
.nf
     %A - Author META TAG - Not valid on index pages
     %D - Date META TAG - Not valid on index pages
     %S - Subject META TAG 
.nr
.TP
